Add third part of blog (#282)
kudobuilder/www: content/blog/blog-2020-07-27-building-your-first-operator-3.md

---
date: 2020-07-27
---

# Building your first KUDO operator - Part 3

> In [part 1](https://kudo.dev/blog/blog-2020-06-building-your-first-operator-1.html) and [2](https://kudo.dev/blog/blog-2020-07-building-your-first-operator-2.html) of this blog series, I showed how we bootstrapped a Galera cluster using KUDO, by building up our operator in a series of steps, testing each one as we went.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [part 1](blog-2020-06-building-your-first-operator-1.md) and [2](blog-2020-07-building-your-first-operator-2.md) of this blog series, I showed how we bootstrapped a Galera cluster using KUDO, by building up our operator in a series of steps, testing each one as we went.
```

The links should be relative – otherwise vuepress will add `target: _blank`. (note vuepress will generate the correct link here based on the referenced markdown file.)

    {{ else -}}
    wsrep_cluster_address = gcomm://{{ $.Name }}-galera-0.{{ $.Name }}-hs{{ range $i, $v := untilStep 1 (int .Params.NODE_COUNT) 1 }},{{ $.Name }}-galera-{{ $v }}.{{ $.Name }}-hs{{end}}
    {{ end -}}
    wsrep_sst_auth = "root:{{ .Params.MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD }}"
    binlog_format = ROW
  innodb.cnf: |
    [innodb]
    innodb_autoinc_lock_mode = 2
    innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit = 0
    innodb_buffer_pool_size = 122M
```

You can see we’ve added the conditional step around the `wsrep_cluster_address`, which means it gets the bootstrap configuration if called in the `firstboot_config` step, otherwise it just has the nodes in the cluster. 

```yaml
{{ if eq .StepName "firstboot_config" -}}
    wsrep_cluster_address = gcomm://{{ .Name }}-bootstrap-svc,{{ $.Name }}-{{ $.OperatorName }}-0.{{ $.Name }}-hs{{ range $i, $v := untilStep 1 (int .Params.NODE_COUNT) 1 }},{{ $.Name }}-{{ $.OperatorName }}-{{ $v }}.{{ $.Name }}-hs{{end}}
    {{ else -}}
    wsrep_cluster_address = gcomm://{{ $.Name }}-galera-0.{{ $.Name }}-hs{{ range $i, $v := untilStep 1 (int .Params.NODE_COUNT) 1 }},{{ $.Name }}-galera-{{ $v }}.{{ $.Name }}-hs{{end}}
    {{ end -}}
```

> Note that we terminate both the `if` and `end` statements with a period. This tells the templating engine not to leave an empty line where those statements were in the template. For a full explanation of the templating code, have a look at [Part 2](blog-2020-07-building-your-first-operator-2.md) of this blog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that we terminate both the `if` and `end` statements with a dash. This tells the templating engine not to leave an empty line where those statements were in the template. For a full explanation of the templating code, have a look at [Part 2](blog-2020-07-building-your-first-operator-2.md) of this blog.
```

Or hyphen? Not sure...

Author: Good catch, it should actually be if else and end, and hyphen is correct. Amended.
